# Problem Set 2

In this second problem set, you will solve the circuit-board layout problem using a constraint-satisfaction problem solver. Here's some information on it from Chapter 3 of *Classic Computer Science Problems in Python*:

> A manufacturer needs to fit certain rectangular chips onto a rectangular circuit board. Essentially, this problem asks, “How can several different-sized rectangles all fit snugly inside of another rectangle?” A constraint-satisfaction problem solver can find the solution. The circuit board layout problem is similar to the word-search problem. Instead of 1×N rectangles (words), the problem presents M×N rectangles. Like in the word-search problem, the rectangles cannot overlap. The rectangles cannot be put on diagonals, so in that sense the problem is actually simpler than the word search.

You should have read chapter 3 by now. It contains the source for the word search problem, which you should be able to use as a starting point.

Note that we are allowing our rectangles (chips) to be rotated 90 degrees.

## Instructions

You need to understand what your variables, domains, and constraint(s) are. Start by defining them in your mind. Then define a `Constraint` subclass. You will need to write the following items:

1. A function that can generate the domain for each variable
2. A `Constraint` subclass that doesn't allow chips to overlap
3. The body of `solution()` which takes a list of chips, generates domains for each of those chips, and runs a CSP with appropriate constraint(s). It should return the grid filled in based on the results of the CSP.

If `solution()` is given the following chips:

```
[Chip(5, 5, "*"), Chip(4, 4, "#"), Chip(2, 2, "@")]
```

Then it should create a grid that has all three chips fitting on it:

```
*****####-
*****####-
*****####-
*****####-
*****@@---
-----@@---
----------
----------
----------
----------
```

Here are a couple approaches you could take:

### Do it similar to the word search problem in CCSPiP chapter 3

In this scenario, the chips would be the variables, and their domains would be `list`s of all of the places they would occupy if placed on different parts of the board (`GridLocation`s). The constraint would be that no chips share any `GridLocation`s in their proposed placements. You can use the word search code as a starting point.

### Do it by comparing rectangles

In this scenario, the chips would be the variables, and their domains would be potential rectangles they could occupy on the grid. You could write a method that checks if two rectangles intersect. You could create binary constraints between every two chips that checks their proposed rectangles don't intersect.

## Rules

1. You cannot use any third-party libraries.
2. Your solution must use the provided `backtracking_search()` and the `CSP` class.
3. You cannot modify `backtracking_search()` or the `CSP` class.
4. You cannot change the unit tests.
5. Cite all of your sources (even if you just look at them) in comments. Cite any people/classmates you discuss the problem with. Cite GitHub Copilot or any AI assistants if they produce snippets of code that are non-trivial. Write something like, “Generated by GitHub Copilot.” 

Violating any of these rules will result in zero credit for the assignment.

## Setup

1. Create your own **private** repository from this repo by hitting the "Use this template" button at the top of the page and put it under your username
2. Add me (@davecom) as a collaborator on your **private** repository.
3. Run the tests by running `python3 -m unittest` or by pushing to GitHub where the tests will automatically run (look for that big beautiful green checkmark).

## Grading

Partial credit will be provided for some tests passing, but not for code written that passes no tests. You are being graded based on working solutions, not amount of code written. Your grade will be based on the number of tests passed / the total number of tests.

## Note on Repository Access

This repository should stay private. If you make it public, you are possibly providing your solution to other students taking the class. Generally the problem sets in this class are not great portfolio projects because they are too small, or contain a significant portion of code that is not your own and therefore do not demonstrate your skill. Please keep your repository private so other students can't use your solution.
